README.md, before:

# Full Stack Client Engineering Template

## Technology Stack and Features

- ⚡ [**FastAPI**](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com) for the Python backend API.
  - 🧰 [SQLModel](https://sqlmodel.tiangolo.com) for the Python SQL database interactions (ORM).
  - 🔍 [Pydantic](https://docs.pydantic.dev), used by FastAPI, for the data validation and settings management.
  - 💾 [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) as the SQL database.
- 🚀 [React](https://react.dev) for the frontend.
  - 💃 Using TypeScript, hooks, Vite, and other parts of a modern frontend stack.
  - 🎨 [Carboncn UI](https://www.carboncn.dev/) & [Carbon](https://carbondesignsystem.com/) for the frontend components.
  - 🤖 An automatically generated frontend client.
  - 🦇 Dark mode support.
- 🐋 [Docker Compose](https://www.docker.com) & [colima](https://github.com/abiosoft/colima/) for development.
- 🔒 Secure password hashing by default.
- 🔑 JWT (JSON Web Token) authentication.
- 🚢 Deployment instructions using OpenShift.

_This Template is based on [full-stack-fastapi-template](https://github.com/fastapi/full-stack-fastapi-template)_

## Sample Applications & Tutorials

Check out our Collection of Sample Applications (AI-Chat, Agents, RAG, etc.) built on top of the template:

- [CE Starter 🚀](https://github.ibm.com/CE-Starter/)
- [Tutorials](https://github.ibm.com/CE-Starter/full-stack-cen-template-tutorials)

## Screenshots

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>

### Dashboard Login

![API docs](.docs/img/login.png)

</td>
<td>

### Dashboard - Admin

![API docs](.docs/img/dashboard.png)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

### Dashboard - Create User

![API docs](.docs/img/dashboard-create.png)

</td>
<td>

### Dashboard - Items

![API docs](.docs/img/dashboard-items.png)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

### Dashboard - User Settings

![API docs](.docs/img/dashboard-user-settings.png)

</td>
<td>

### Dashboard - Dark Mode

![API docs](.docs/img/dashboard-dark.png)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

### Interactive API Documentation

![API docs](.docs/img/docs.png)

</td>
<td></td>
</tr>

  </tbody>
</table>

### How to Use It

1. Setup with create-cen-app and choose "full-stack-cen-template"

```bash
npm create cen-app@latest
```

2. Or if you want to clone it and pull updates from the original template:

- Clone this repository manually, set the name with the name of the project you want to use, for example `my-full-stack`:

```bash
git clone git@github.ibm.com:technology-garage-dach/full-stack-cen-template.git my-full-stack
```

- Enter into the new directory:

```bash
cd my-full-stack
```

- Set the new origin to your new repository (copy from GitHub interface):

```bash
git remote set-url origin git@github.ibm.com:my-username/my-full-stack.git
```

- Add the template repository as upstream to get future updates:

```bash
git remote add upstream git@github.ibm.com:technology-garage-dach/full-stack-cen-template.git
```

- Push the code to your new repository:

```bash
git push -u origin main
```

### Update From the Original Template

After cloning the repository, and after doing changes, you might want to get the latest changes from this original template.

- Make sure you added the original repository as a remote, you can check it with:

```bash
git remote -v

origin    git@github.ibm.com:my-username/my-full-stack.git (fetch)
origin    git@github.ibm.com:my-username/my-full-stack.git (push)
upstream    git@github.ibm.com:technology-garage-dach/full-stack-cen-template.git (fetch)
upstream    git@github.ibm.com:technology-garage-dach/full-stack-cen-template.git (push)
```

- Pull the latest changes without merging:

```bash
git pull --no-commit upstream main
```

This will download the latest changes from this template without committing them, that way you can check everything is right before committing.

- If there are conflicts, solve them in your editor.

- Once you are done, commit the changes:

```bash
git merge --continue
```

## Development

General development docs: [development.md](./.docs/development.md).

## Deployment

OpenShift Deployment docs: [oc-deployment.md](./.docs/oc-deployment.md).

Code Engine Deployment docs: [ce-deployment.md](./.docs/ce-deployment.md).

## Backend Development

Backend docs: [backend/README.md](./backend/README.md).

## Frontend Development

Frontend docs: [frontend/README.md](./frontend/README.md).

## Release Notes

Check the file [release-notes.md](./.docs/release-notes.md).

Commit message:

docs: update README with project flavours and setup instructions

README.md, after:

# Full Stack Client Engineering Template

## Technology Stack and Features

- ⚡ [**FastAPI**](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com) for the Python backend API.
  - 🧰 [SQLModel](https://sqlmodel.tiangolo.com) for the Python SQL database interactions (ORM).
  - 🔍 [Pydantic](https://docs.pydantic.dev), used by FastAPI, for the data validation and settings management.
  - 💾 [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) as the SQL database.
- 🚀 [React](https://react.dev) for the frontend.
  - 💃 Using TypeScript, hooks, Vite, and other parts of a modern frontend stack.
  - 🎨 [Carbon](https://carbondesignsystem.com/) & [Carboncn UI](https://www.carboncn.dev/) (optionally) for the frontend components.
  - 🤖 An automatically generated frontend client.
  - 🦇 Dark mode support.
- 🐋 [Docker Compose](https://www.docker.com) & [colima](https://github.com/abiosoft/colima/) for development.
- 🔒 Secure password hashing by default.
- 🔑 JWT (JSON Web Token) authentication.
- 🚢 Deployment instructions using OpenShift.

_This Template is based on [full-stack-fastapi-template](https://github.com/fastapi/full-stack-fastapi-template)_

## Sample Applications & Tutorials

Check out our Collection of Sample Applications (AI-Chat, Agents, RAG, etc.) built on top of the template:

- [CE Starter 🚀](https://github.ibm.com/CE-Starter/)
- [Tutorials](https://github.ibm.com/CE-Starter/full-stack-cen-template-tutorials)

## Flavours

This template is available in different flavours, which are represented by different branches, make sure to pull the correct branch for your use case:

- `main` - The default flavour, with user-management inside the app.
- `oauth-proxy` - users are managed by the Identity Provider (IdP) of your choice (e.g. Keycloak or AppID) via OAuth proxy.
- `backend-only` - FastAPI backend only, no frontend.

## Screenshots

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>

### Login

![API docs](.docs/img/login.png)

</td>
<td>

### Admin

![API docs](.docs/img/dashboard.png)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

### Create User

![API docs](.docs/img/dashboard-create.png)

</td>
<td>

### Items

![API docs](.docs/img/dashboard-items.png)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

### User Settings

![API docs](.docs/img/dashboard-user-settings.png)

</td>
<td>

### Dark Mode

![API docs](.docs/img/dashboard-dark.png)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

### Interactive API Documentation

![API docs](.docs/img/docs.png)

</td>
<td></td>
</tr>

  </tbody>
</table>

### How to Use It

#### Setup with create-cen-app and choose "full-stack-cen-template"

```bash
npm create cen-app@latest
```

#### Or if you want to clone it and pull updates from the original template:

- Clone this repository manually, set the name with the name of the project you want to use, for example `my-full-stack`:

```bash
git clone git@github.ibm.com:technology-garage-dach/full-stack-cen-template.git my-full-stack
```

- Enter into the new directory:

```bash
cd my-full-stack
```

- If you are not using the `main` branch, checkout the correct branch for your use case:

```bash
git checkout <branch-name>
```

- Set the new origin to your new repository (copy from GitHub interface):

```bash
git remote set-url origin git@github.ibm.com:my-username/my-full-stack.git
```

- Add the template repository as upstream to get future updates:

```bash
git remote add upstream git@github.ibm.com:technology-garage-dach/full-stack-cen-template.git
```

- Push the code to your new repository:

```bash
git push -u origin main # or choose the branch you want to use
```

### Update From the Original Template

After cloning the repository, and after doing changes, you might want to get the latest changes from this original template.

- Make sure you added the original repository as a remote, you can check it with:

```bash
git remote -v

origin    git@github.ibm.com:my-username/my-full-stack.git (fetch)
origin    git@github.ibm.com:my-username/my-full-stack.git (push)
upstream    git@github.ibm.com:technology-garage-dach/full-stack-cen-template.git (fetch)
upstream    git@github.ibm.com:technology-garage-dach/full-stack-cen-template.git (push)
```

- Pull the latest changes without merging:

```bash
git pull --no-commit upstream main
```

This will download the latest changes from this template without committing them, that way you can check everything is right before committing.

- If there are conflicts, solve them in your editor.

- Once you are done, commit the changes:

```bash
git merge --continue
```

## Development

General development docs: [development.md](./.docs/development.md).

## Deployment

OpenShift Deployment docs: [oc-deployment.md](./.docs/oc-deployment.md).

Code Engine Deployment docs: [ce-deployment.md](./.docs/ce-deployment.md).

## Backend Development

Backend docs: [backend/README.md](./backend/README.md).

## Frontend Development

Frontend docs: [frontend/README.md](./frontend/README.md).

## Release Notes

Check the file [release-notes.md](./.docs/release-notes.md).
